**Exercises**

> Rate yourself out of 10 on each of the skills above and reflect on where you are strong and where you are weak. Be as detailed and thorough as possible.

> How do you commit to improving in areas that are weak? Include this information in your checkpoint submission.

> Interpersonal Communication

A: I would rate myself a 7 out of 10 in interpersonal communication. I don't rate myself higher due to the networking and building rapport aspect of this skill. Having a purposed conversation with someone I know, or in an environment I am comfortable in I would rate myself a 9. I have great listening skills, active and reflective, and I know how to use I statements to communicate my message, and create clear boundaries in a relationship. I know that the priority of communicating is to gain understanding first, and to be understood second, and I practice this well in my day to day interactions with co-workers, customers, friends, and family. However, when I am put in an environment I am uncomfortable in, and I don't know anyone, it's like I become a completely different person. I become very anxious, and highly self critical to the point that I get paralyzed and become silent. It's difficult for me to make new friends, meet new people, and step outside of my comfort zone to build new relationships. 

To improve this skill I am practicing meeting new people on a weekly basis and attending events I would otherwise shy away from because they sound uncomfortable. I am reading about techniques to manage anxiety in social situations, and practicing skills to do so when I find myself anxious and self critical in an uncomfortable environment. 

> Accountability

A: I would rate myself a 6 out of 10 in accountabililty. I am excellent in punctuality and follow through, but I am not great at replying to emails, text messages, and phone calls in a timely manner. I can also struggle with follow through if I am working on something that I do not feel invested in. If my heart is not in it, I find it more difficult to motivate myself. Over the years I have disciplined myself enough to fake it till I make it for a short period of time, or a small project in regard to investing myself even though I may not believe in what I'm doing 100%, but long term I will burn out and lose motivation and accountability if my heart isn't in it. 

To improve this skill I commit to change my habits in a couple of these areas. First when I receive a phone call I will answer the phone and not allow it to go to voice mail to determine if I will call them back or not. Second when I receive a text message I will reply immediately, even if the reply is that I will get back to them shortly, instead of letting it sit until the end of the day and determining whether I will text back or not. Third, I will spend 1 hour on Saturday each week to clean my email out until it is maneagable again, and turn my email notifications back on, so I can reply to important emails immediately, instead of letting them sit unattended because my inbox is out of control.

> Technical Skills

A: This is tough to answer, because I don't quite know what a 10 would look like in terms of a developer. I am still learning web development, so I'm not really sure where I'm at here. If this is a rating on learning new skills quickly I would rate myself a 8 out of 10. Currently I am working in the telecommunications industry as a field service supervisor overseeing field technicians in coaxial video, phone, and internet service installations and troubleshooting, as well as distribution network, and fiber optic transport network technicians. I am constantly on call, and learning new technologies in this role. That coupled with doing this web development bootcamp is really intense in terms of constantly learning new skills. I think considering the circumstances of performing both of those roles in parallel I am doing very well. My team of technicians is the top team in our region, which consists of California, Nevada, Idaho, Arizona, and Texas, and we continue to outperform our peers even though I have taken on this role of learning a completely new skill set and have my time split between the two.

> Technical Communication

A: I would rate myself a 8 out of 10 in technical communication. This is, and has been a part of my life for the past 5 years. In my current role I am constantly learning new technologies, and training technicians in those technologies, many times within a very short time of learning it myself. Being in charge of quality control measures, and training allows me to see the full lifecycle of a technician performing from classroom to a real world scenario. I have 5 years of experience in communicating complex technical concepts to both newly trained technicians, and veteran technicians with many years of service. This experience has allowed me to fine tune both my technical communication, and interpersonal communication to maximize my results in achieving an intended outcome. I know that communication is a very fluid skill in that you could explain a concept in one way to someone that would get the message across clearly to them, but would come up short to the person sitting right next to them. Skills of listening, checking in with your team to ensure understanding, and using different methods of trasmitting the same message are critical to ensuring a team is on the same page. 

> Confidence

A: I would rate myself a 8 out of 10 in confidence. I have learned confidence throughout my professional career by being put in situations I'm not fully prepared for. It has caused me to learn things quickly and stretched me to do things I didn't think were possible. It's also caused me to fail, and to learn from failures. 

> Resilience and Grit

A: I would rate myself a 7 out of 10 in resilience and grit. I think resilience and grit are directly proportional to your ability to maintain your vision for the future. If you can keep your eyes set on where you're going and why your going there you can withstand a lot of rejection, distractions, negative emotions, conflict, and any other things that derail you from continuing on your journey. I don't rate myself higher in this because I can get caught in the muck and mire of negativity at times and lose sight of where I'm going. Granted I typically get myself out of it in a moment of clarity and realization of where I'm at and what I'm missing, I'm still working on developing these traits within myself so they are much more natural and overpower the roadblocks I encounter. 

To improve in this category I am working on writing my "WHY" out so that I can keep referring to why I'm doing something. In addition I write out what the end result looks like, and reflect on it on a regular basis, so that I keep a strong healthy vision in front of me. 