**Questions**
> In your own words, explain single-page applications and progressive web apps.

A:  A single page application is an application that dynamically loads content on a page without having to reload the entire page. A single page application car rewrite a small portion of a page while leaving the rest of the page untouched. In this way, it behaves more like a native desktop application than a standard web application. Progressive web apps are reliable, fast, and engaging. Progressive web apps use a service worker. A service worker minimizes the extent that a web app is reliant on the network as much as possible, so the web app can load regardless of the network state. A service worker also allows a web app to perform functions while offline. A progressive web app also has similar functionality to a native app, so the user experience is engaging and enjoyable. 

> Either from your research or by inspecting popular sites you frequent (using Chrome DevTools), give some real-world examples of applications built with React and Angular.

A: React: Facebook, Instagram, Netflix, Yahoo Mail, Codecademy, and Dropbox. Angular: CVS Shop, Travel.gov, Microsoft Office Support, Google Pay, Fitbit Community, ABC News, US Bank, 

> Write a summary of the benefits of React vs. Angular. Then ask your mentor about the current state of web development, and ask questions about how they use they two popular technologies in their work.

A: React is a library, and Angular is a fully functional framework. Inherently React on it's own is smaller, and needs additional packages to go with it, in order for it to compare with all the built in functionality that Angular has. That means that React has more options in terms of packages you use, wheras Angular has a more specific way of doing things since its functionality is built into it. This can be both good and bad depending on your project and development team. Angular seems to have a steeper learning curve than React. React typically uses JSX which combines markup and javascript, and allows React to show more useful error and warning messages. React uses a virtual DOM, which is a part of why it performs so well. React also has React Native, React Desktop, and React VR, which makes React available to use in a much wider array of functions. One of the main ways React stands out to me is that you have many ways to do one task, wheras with Angular you have one specific way of doing things. 